A sleeve supports a shaft. A housing member is arranged so as to surround the sleeve and make the end of the sleeve protrude. A base member holds the housing member and fixes a stator core so as to surround the housing member. A hub drives a recording disk by being rotated integrally with the shaft, with a magnet being fixed to an annular portion concentric with the shaft so as to face the stator core fixed to the base member. A thrust member is rotated integrally with the hub, and a descender portion and a ring portion.
A rotating device includes a sleeve which encircles a shaft, a housing which supports the shaft and which forms an annular supporting recess where the lower end of the sleeve enters together with the shaft, a ring member which is provided above the sleeve and which is fixed to the shaft in a manner encircling the shaft. A first gap between the sleeve and the shaft includes first and second radial dynamic pressure generating portions. An annular sleeve recess is formed in upper face of the sleeve. The ring member includes a ring entering portion that enters the sleeve recess in a non-contact manner. An outward gap in the radial direction where the ring entering portion and the sleeve recess face with each other in the radial direction includes a second air-liquid interface of a lubricant.
In a disk drive device, a hub has an outer circumferential wall portion configured to hold a recording disk. A base member has a cylindrical portion, whose central axis is the rotation axis of the hub, on a surface on the side of the hub. A fluid dynamic bearing holds a lubricant and rotatably supports the hub relative to the base member. A ring-shaped attraction plate including a magnetic material is fixed to the base member and faces a magnet in the axial direction. The outer circumferential wall portion is configured such that the outer circumferential wall portion surrounds the attraction plate and that the range of the outer circumferential wall portion in the axial direction overlaps with the range of the attraction plate in the axial direction.
A rotating device includes a shaft body that includes a lower rod and an upper rod formed with a retainer hole encircling a part of the lower rod and fixing the lower rod, a bearing body including a shaft encircling member that encircles the shaft body, and freely rotatable relative to the shaft body, a radial dynamic pressure generating groove which is provided in either one of the shaft body and the bearing body and which generates dynamic pressure in a radial direction, a thrust dynamic pressure generating groove which is provided in either one of the shaft body and the bearing body and which generates dynamic pressure in a thrust direction, and a lubrication medium present in a gap between the shaft body and the bearing body.
A rotary device includes a fixed body including a shaft; a rotary body including a sleeve being configured to surround the shaft through lubricant; and first and second taper seals provided in a space between the fixed body and the rotary body in which gas-liquid interfaces of the lubricant exist, respectively, when the rotary device is operated, the first and taper seals being configured such that a lower limit of a filling ratio of the second taper seal corresponds to a predetermined range of the filling ratio of the first taper seal including its lower limit of the filling ratio, and an upper limit of the filling ratio of the second taper seal corresponds to a predetermined filling ratio of the first taper seal that is larger than an upper limit of the predetermined range and lower than an upper limit of the first taper seal.
A disk drive device comprises a rotor on which a recording disk is to be mounted and a fixed body rotatably supporting the rotor through a bearing unit. The rotor includes a projecting portion configured to fit into a central hole of the recording disk, a clamper configured to be fixed to the projecting portion, and a seating portion provided radially outward of the projecting portion. The projecting portion and the seating portion are configured such that the seating portion moves with respect to the projecting portion by fixing the clamper to the projecting portion with the recording disk being in between the clamper and the seating portion.
A disk drive device includes: a base member; a hub on which a recording disk is placed; a bearing unit arranged on the base member for rotatably supporting the hub; and a spindle drive unit for rotationally driving the hub, wherein the spindle drive unit includes a stator core having salient poles, a coil wound around each of the salient poles, and a magnet having a plurality of magnetic poles arranged in a circumferential direction opposed to the salient poles, the hub includes an outer cylindrical portion formed of a magnetic material and engaged with an inner periphery of the recording disk, and an inner cylindrical portion fixing an outer periphery of the magnet, the number of magnetic poles is an even number in a range of 10 to 16, and the number of salient poles is a multiple of 3 in a range of 12 to 24.
The disk drive device includes a base member, a hub, a bearing unit which is arranged on the base member and which rotatably supports the hub, and a spindle drive unit which drives the hub to rotate. The spindle drive unit includes a stator core having a salient pole, a coil wound around the salient pole and a magnet opposed to the salient pole. The hub formed of magnetic material includes an outer cylinder portion engaged with an inner circumference of a recording disk and an inner cylinder portion to which an outer circumference of the magnet is fixed. The diameter of the inner cylinder portion is larger than the diameter of the outer cylinder portion.