A variable resistance memory device includes a selection transistor, which includes a first doped region and a second doped region, a vertical electrode coupled to the first doped region of the selection transistor, a bit line coupled to the second doped region of the selection transistor, a plurality of word lines stacked on the substrate along a sidewall of the vertical electrode, variable resistance patterns between the word lines and the vertical electrode, and an insulating isolation layer between the word lines. The variable resistance patterns are spaced apart from each other in a direction normal to a top surface of the substrate by the insulating isolation layer.
A gate structure of a non-volatile memory device and a method of forming the same including a tunnel oxide layer pattern, a charge trap layer pattern, a blocking dielectric layer pattern having the uppermost layer including a material having a first dielectric constant greater than that of a material included in the tunnel oxide layer pattern, and first and second conductive layer patterns. The gate structure includes a first spacer to cover at least the sidewall of the second conductive layer pattern. The gate structure includes a second spacer covering the sidewall of the first spacer and the sidewall of the first conductive layer pattern and including a material having a second dielectric constant equal to or greater than the first dielectric constant. In the non-volatile memory device including the gate structure, erase saturation caused by back tunneling is reduced.
Conductive line structures, and methods of forming the same, include first and second pattern structures, insulation layer patterns and an insulating interlayer. The first pattern structure includes a conductive line pattern and a hard mask stacked, and extends in a first direction. The second pattern structure includes a second conductive line pattern and another hard mask stacked, and at least a portion of the pattern structure extends in the first direction. The insulation layer patterns contact end portions of the pattern structures. The first pattern structure and an insulation layer pattern form a closed curve shape in plan view, and the second pattern structure and another insulation layer pattern form another closed curve shape in plan view. The insulating interlayer covers upper portions of the pattern structures and the insulation layer patterns, an air gap between the pattern structures, and another air gap between the insulation layer patterns.