A multi-layered speech recognition apparatus and method, the apparatus includes a client checking whether the client recognizes the speech using a characteristic of speech to be recognized and recognizing the speech or transmitting the characteristic of the speech according to a checked result; and first through N-th servers, wherein the first server checks whether the first server recognizes the speech using the characteristic of the speech transmitted from the client, and recognizes the speech or transmits the characteristic according to a checked result, and wherein an n-th (2?n?N) server checks whether the n-th server recognizes the speech using the characteristic of the speech transmitted from an (n?1)-th server, and recognizes the speech or transmits the characteristic according to a checked result.
A high electron mobility transistor (HEMT) includes a substrate, an HEMT stack spaced apart from the substrate, and a pseudo-insulation layer (PIL) disposed between the substrate and the HEMT stack. The PIL layer includes at least two materials having different phases. The PIL layer defines an empty space that is wider at an intermediate portion than at an entrance of the empty space.
Example embodiments are directed to a light-emitting device including a patterned emitting unit and a method of manufacturing the light-emitting device. The light-emitting device includes a first electrode on a top of a semiconductor layer, and a second electrode on a bottom of the semiconductor layer, wherein the semiconductor layer is a pattern array formed of a plurality of stacks. A space between the plurality of stacks is filled with an insulating layer, and the first electrode is on the insulating layer.
A light emitting device may include a substrate, an n-type clad layer, an active layer, and a p-type clad layer. A concave-convex pattern having a plurality of grooves and a mesa between each of the plurality of grooves may be formed on the substrate, and a reflective layer may be formed on the surfaces of the plurality of grooves or the mesa between each of the plurality of grooves. Therefore, light generated in the active layer may be reflected by the reflective layer, and extracted to an external location.
A substrate structure and method of manufacturing the same are disclosed. The substrate structure may includes a substrate on which a plurality of protrusions are formed on one surface thereof and a plurality of buffer layers formed according to a predetermined pattern and formed spaced apart from each other on the plurality of protrusions.