Embodiments may be directed to a method of operating a semiconductor device, the method including receiving a first write training command, receiving a first write data responsive to the first write training command through a first data line, and transmitting the first write data through a second data line. Transmitting the first write data is performed without an additional training command.
Example embodiments provide a semiconductor memory device that may include: a cell array arranged in pluralities of rows and columns; and a sense amplifier conducting writing and reading operations to the cell array in response to writing and reading commands in correspondence with an access time, which may be variable in period. The sense amplifier adjusts pulse widths of write-in and read-out data in accordance with a period of the access time.
A three-dimensional (3D) semiconductor memory device includes an electrode separation pattern, a stack structure, a data storage layer, and a channel structure. The electrode separation pattern is disposed on a substrate. A stack structure is disposed on a sidewall of the electrode separation pattern. The stack structure includes a corrugated sidewall opposite to the sidewall of the electrode separation pattern. The sidewall of the electrode separation pattern is vertical to the substrate. A data storage layer is disposed on the corrugated sidewall. A channel structure is disposed on the charge storage layer.
Provided are three-dimensional semiconductor memory devices and methods of forming the same. The device includes a substrate, conductive patterns stacked on the substrate, and an active pattern penetrating the conductive patterns to be connected to the substrate. The active pattern may include a first doped region provided in an upper portion of the active pattern, and a diffusion-resistant doped region overlapped with at least a portion of the first doped region. The diffusion-resistant doped region may be a region doped with carbon.