Provided are a semiconductor chip and a method of manufacturing the same. The semiconductor chip includes a substrate having a first side and a second side facing each other, and a through electrode being disposed in a hole penetrating the substrate, wherein an opening surrounded by the through electrode is disposed in the hole, wherein the opening comprises a first end adjacent to the first side of the substrate and a second end adjacent to the second side of the substrate
Semiconductor devices are disclosed. The semiconductor device may include a semiconductor substrate having a first surface and a second surface opposite to each other and a pad trench formed at a portion of the second surface, a through-electrode penetrating the semiconductor substrate and protruding from a bottom surface of the pad trench. A buried pad may be disposed in the pad trench and may surround the through-electrode.
A method of forming through silicon vias (TSVs) uses a low-k dielectric material as a via insulating layer to thereby improve step coverage and minimize resistive capacitive (RC) delay. To this end, the method includes forming a primary via hole in a semiconductor substrate, depositing low-k dielectric material in the primary via hole, forming a secondary via hole by etching the low-k dielectric in the primary via hole, in such a manner that a via insulating layer and an inter metal dielectric layer of the low-k dielectric layer are simultaneously formed. The via insulating layer is formed of the low-k dielectric material on sidewalls and a bottom surface of the substrate which delimit the primary via hole and the inter metal dielectric layer is formed on an upper surface of the substrate. Then a metal layer is formed on the substrate including in the secondary via hole, and the metal layer is selectively removed from an upper surface of the semiconductor substrate.
A fuse base insulating region, for example, an insulating interlayer or a compensation region disposed in an insulating interlayer, is formed on a substrate. An etch stop layer is formed on the fuse base insulating region and forming an insulating interlayer having a lower dielectric constant than the first fuse base insulating region on the etch stop layer. A trench extending through the insulating interlayer and the etch stop layer and at least partially into the fuse base insulating region is formed. A fuse is formed in the trench. The fuse base insulating region may have a greater mechanical strength and/or density than the second insulating interlayer.