Provided are semiconductor devices and methods of manufacturing the same. The semiconductor device may include a substrate provided with a transistor, an insulating layer disposed on the substrate, the insulating layer including a contact hole exposing a portion of the transistor, a spacer disposed on an inner sidewall of the contact hole, and a contact plug disposed in the contact hole. Here, a space defined by the spacer may increase in width from a bottom side thereof to a top side thereof.
A phase-change memory device includes a diode, a plug, a doping layer pattern, a phase-change layer pattern and an upper electrode. The diode is disposed on a substrate. The plug is disposed on the diode and has a bottom surface whose area is equal to the area of a top surface of the diode. The plug is formed of metal or a conductive metallic compound. The doping layer pattern is disposed on the plug and has a bottom surface whose area is equal to the area of a top surface of the plug, and includes the same metal or conductive metallic compound as the plug. The phase-change layer pattern is disposed on the doping layer pattern. The upper electrode is disposed on the phase-change layer pattern.
A conductive pattern on a substrate is formed. An insulating layer having an opening exposing the conductive pattern is formed. A bottom electrode is formed on the conductive pattern and a first sidewall of the opening. A spacer is formed on the bottom electrode and a second sidewall of the opening. The spacer and the bottom electrode are formed to be lower than a top surface of the insulating layer. A data storage plug is formed on the bottom electrode and the spacer. The data storage plug has a first sidewall aligned with a sidewall of the bottom electrode and a second sidewall aligned with a sidewall of the spacer. A bit line is formed on the data storage plug.
A phase change structure includes a first phase change material layer pattern and a second phase change material layer pattern. The first phase change material layer pattern may partially fill a minute structure, and the second phase change material layer pattern may fully fill the minute structure. The first phase change material layer pattern may include a first phase change material, and the second phase change material layer pattern may include a second phase change material having a composition substantially different from a composition of the first phase change material.