A variable resistance memory device includes a selection transistor, which includes a first doped region and a second doped region, a vertical electrode coupled to the first doped region of the selection transistor, a bit line coupled to the second doped region of the selection transistor, a plurality of word lines stacked on the substrate along a sidewall of the vertical electrode, variable resistance patterns between the word lines and the vertical electrode, and an insulating isolation layer between the word lines. The variable resistance patterns are spaced apart from each other in a direction normal to a top surface of the substrate by the insulating isolation layer.
An electronic apparatus includes a main board, a semiconductor package, an upper conductive EMI shield member, and a lower conductive EMI shield member. The main board includes a first ground pad. The semiconductor package is spaced apart from and electrically connected to the main board. The upper conductive EMI shield member covers a top surface and a sidewall of the semiconductor package. The lower conductive EMI shield member surrounds a space between the main board and the semiconductor package, and is electrically connected to the upper conductive EMI shield member and the first ground pad.
Provided are three-dimensional semiconductor devices. A device includes an electrode structure including conductive patterns sequentially stacked on a substrate, a semiconductor pattern penetrating the electrode structure and including channel regions adjacent to the conductive patterns and vertical adjacent regions between the channel regions, and a semiconductor connecting layer extending from an outer sidewall of the semiconductor pattern to connect the semiconductor pattern to the substrate.
A method of fabricating a nonvolatile memory device includes providing a substrate having active regions defined by a plurality of trenches, forming a first isolation layer on the substrate having the plurality of trenches, forming a sacrificial layer on the first isolation layer to fill the trenches, the sacrificial layer including a first region filling lower portions of the trenches and a second region filling portions other than the lower portions, removing the second region of the sacrificial layer, forming a second isolation layer on the first isolation layer and the first region of the sacrificial layer, forming air gaps in the trenches by removing the first region of the sacrificial layer, and removing a portion of the first isolation layer and a portion of the second isolation layer while maintaining the air gaps.
A three-dimensional semiconductor memory device may include gap-fill insulating layers extending upward from a substrate, an electrode structure delimited by sidewalls of the gap-fill insulating layers, vertical structures provided between adjacent ones of the gap-fill insulating layers to penetrate the electrode structure, and at least one separation pattern extending along the gap-fill insulating layers and penetrating at least a portion of the electrode structure. The separation pattern may include at least one separation semiconductor layer.
A nonvolatile memory device includes a substrate, a channel layer protruding from the substrate, a gate conductive layer surrounding the channel layer, a gate insulating layer disposed between the channel layer and the gate conductive layer, and a first insulating layer spaced apart from the channel layer and disposed on the top and bottom of the gate conductive layer. The gate insulating layer extends between the gate conductive layer and the first insulating layer.