Provided is a method of operating a non-volatile memory device. The method includes applying a turn-on voltage to each of first and second string select transistors of a first NAND string, applying first and second voltages to third and fourth string select transistors of a second NAND string, respectively, and applying a high voltage to word lines connected with memory cells of the first and second NAND strings.
An atomic layer deposition apparatus and an atomic layer deposition method increase productivity. The atomic layer deposition apparatus includes a reaction chamber, a heater for supporting a plurality of semiconductor substrates with a given interval within the reaction chamber and to heat the plurality of semiconductor substrates and a plurality of injectors respectively positioned within the reaction chamber and corresponding to the plurality of semiconductor substrates supported by the heater. The plurality of injectors are individually swept above the plurality of semiconductor substrates to spray reaction gas.
Nonvolatile memory devices utilize vertically-stacked strings of nonvolatile memory cells (e.g., NAND-type strings) that can be selectively coupled to common source lines within a substrate. This selective coupling may be provided by lateral ground select transistors having different threshold voltages that account for different lateral spacings between the vertically-stacked strings of nonvolatile memory cells and the common source lines.
In a method of multiple-bit programming of a three-dimensional memory device having arrays of memory cells that extend in horizontal and vertical directions relative to a substrate, the method comprises first programming a memory cell to be programmed to one among a first set of states. At least one neighboring memory cell that neighbors the memory cell to be programmed to one among the first set of states is then first programmed. Following the first programming of the at least one neighboring memory cell, second programming the memory cell to be programmed to one among a second set of states, wherein the second set of states has a number of states that is greater than the number of states in the first set of states.
A method of fabricating a semiconductor memory device includes alternately and repeatedly stacking sacrificial layers and insulating layers on a substrate, forming an active pattern penetrating the sacrificial layers and the insulating layers, continuously patterning the insulating layers and the sacrificial layers to form a trench, removing the sacrificial layers exposed in the trench to form recess regions exposing a sidewall of the active pattern, forming an information storage layer on the substrate, forming a gate conductive layer on the information storage layer, such that the gate conductive layer fills the recess regions and defines an empty region in the trench, the empty region being surrounded by the gate conductive layer, and performing an isotropic etch process with respect to the gate conductive layer to form gate electrodes in the recess regions, such that the gate electrodes are separated from each other.
Provided is a three-dimensional semiconductor memory device. The three-dimensional semiconductor memory device includes a substrate that has a cell array region including a pair of sub-cell regions and a strapping region interposed between the pair of sub-cell regions. A Plurality of sub-gates are sequentially stacked on the substrate in each of the sub-cell regions, and interconnections are electrically connected to extensions of the stacked sub-gates, respectively, which extend into the strapping region. Each of the interconnections is electrically connected to the extensions of the sub-gate which are disposed in the pair of the sub-cell regions, respectively, and which are located at the same level.