A liquid crystal display system including a signal processing device uses interpolation to generate an intermediate image frame using previous image frame data and present image frame data. The system converts data of the intermediate image frame into transposed image data that is to be used to drive a liquid crystal display panel and display a corresponding image. The transposed image data and the present image data are subjected to a prespecified DCC process (dynamic capacitance compensation process) to thereby generate respective first and second compensation image data. Since the first compensation image data is generated based on the transposed image data and the transposition is configured to prevent over-compensation by the DCC process, over-compensation by the dynamic capacitance compensation process can be reduced or prevented.
Making an OLED display, includes forming a first storage plate and a gate insulating layer covering the first storage plate on a substrate; sequentially forming a second storage plate covering the first storage plate and a capacitor intermediate in the gate insulating layer; forming a first doping region by injecting an impurity to a part that is not covered by the capacitor intermediate in the first storage plate; forming an interlayer insulating layer having a capacitor opening exposing the capacitor intermediate, and a plurality of erosion preventing layers on an edge of the capacitor intermediate toward the first doping region in the capacitor opening; removing the capacitor intermediate including the erosion preventing layer and a lower region of the erosion preventing layer, and injecting an impurity in the first storage plate through the second storage plate to form a second doping region contacting the first doping region.
A liquid crystal display includes a timing controller and a liquid crystal panel. The timing controller sequentially receives first through third primitive image signals and sequentially outputs first through third corrected image signals. The liquid crystal panel displays an image based on the first through third corrected image signals. The timing controller generates a first converted image signal having a first gray level based on the first primitive image signal and stores the first converted image signal. The second primitive image signal has a second gray level and the timing controller generates a second converted image signal having a third gray level higher than the second gray level when the second gray level is lower than the first gray level. The timing controller generates the third corrected image signal using the second converted image signal and the third primitive image signal.
An organic light emitting display device including: a substrate; an active layer formed on the substrate; a first insulation film disposed on the substrate to cover the active layer; a transistor including a gate electrode disposed at a location corresponding to the active layer with the first insulation film in between, and source and drain electrodes electrically connected to the active layer; a first electrode layer disposed on the substrate and electrically connected to any one of the source and drain electrodes of the transistor; a second electrode layer formed on the first electrode layer; an organic light emitting layer disposed between the first electrode layer and the second electrode layer; and a light reflecting unit covering a side and a part of top of the first electrode layer.