Provided are semiconductor devices with a through electrode and methods of fabricating the same. The methods may include forming a via hole at least partially penetrating a substrate, the via hole having an entrance provided on a top surface of the substrate, forming a via-insulating layer to cover conformally an inner surface of the via hole, forming a buffer layer on the via-insulating layer to cover conformally the via hole provided with the via-insulating layer, the buffer layer being formed of a material whose shrinkability is superior to the via-insulating layer, forming a through electrode to fill the via hole provided with the buffer layer, and recessing a bottom surface of the substrate to expose the through electrode.
Provided are a semiconductor chip and a method of manufacturing the same. The semiconductor chip includes a substrate having a first side and a second side facing each other, and a through electrode being disposed in a hole penetrating the substrate, wherein an opening surrounded by the through electrode is disposed in the hole, wherein the opening comprises a first end adjacent to the first side of the substrate and a second end adjacent to the second side of the substrate
Semiconductor devices are disclosed. The semiconductor device may include a semiconductor substrate having a first surface and a second surface opposite to each other and a pad trench formed at a portion of the second surface, a through-electrode penetrating the semiconductor substrate and protruding from a bottom surface of the pad trench. A buried pad may be disposed in the pad trench and may surround the through-electrode.
A fuse base insulating region, for example, an insulating interlayer or a compensation region disposed in an insulating interlayer, is formed on a substrate. An etch stop layer is formed on the fuse base insulating region and forming an insulating interlayer having a lower dielectric constant than the first fuse base insulating region on the etch stop layer. A trench extending through the insulating interlayer and the etch stop layer and at least partially into the fuse base insulating region is formed. A fuse is formed in the trench. The fuse base insulating region may have a greater mechanical strength and/or density than the second insulating interlayer.
Provided are semiconductor devices having through electrodes and methods of fabricating the same. The method includes providing a substrate including top and bottom surfaces facing each other, forming a hole and a gap extending from the top surface of the substrate toward the bottom surface of the substrate, the gap surrounding the hole and being shallower than the hole, filling the hole with an insulating material, forming a metal interconnection line on the top surface of the substrate on the insulating material, recessing the bottom surface of the substrate to expose the insulating material, removing the insulating material to expose the metal interconnection line via the hole, filling the hole with a conductive material to form a through electrode connected to the metal interconnection line, recessing the bottom surface of the substrate again to expose the gap, and forming a lower insulating layer on the bottom surface of the substrate.