According to example embodiments, a HEMT includes a channel layer, a channel supply layer on the channel layer, a source electrode and a drain electrode spaced apart on the channel layer, a depletion-forming layer on the channel supply layer, and a plurality of gate electrodes on the depletion-forming layer between the source electrode and the drain electrode. The channel supply layer is configured to induce a two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG) in the channel layer. The depletion-forming layer is configured to form a depletion region in the 2DEG. The plurality of gate electrodes include a first gate electrode and a second gate electrode spaced apart from each other.
According to example embodiments, a normally-off high electron mobility transistor (HEMT) includes: a channel layer having a first nitride semiconductor, a channel supply layer on the channel layer, a source electrode and a drain electrode at sides of the channel supply layer, a depletion-forming layer on the channel supply layer, a gate insulating layer on the depletion-forming layer, and a gate electrode on the gate insulation layer. The channel supply layer includes a second nitride semiconductor and is configured to induce a two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG) in the channel layer. The depletion-forming layer is configured has at least two thicknesses and is configured to form a depletion region in at least a partial region of the 2DEG. The gate electrode contacts the depletion-forming layer.
According to example embodiments, a higher electron mobility transistor (HEMT) may include a first channel layer, a second channel layer on the first channel layer, a channel supply on the second channel layer, a drain electrode spaced apart from the first channel layer, a source electrode contacting the first channel layer and contacting at least one of the second channel layer and the channel supply layer, and a gate electrode unit between the source electrode and the drain electrode. The gate electrode unit may have a normally-off structure. The first and second channel layer form a PN junction with each other. The drain electrode contacts at least one of the second channel layer and the channel supply layer.
Provided are spin field effect logic devices, the logic devices including: a gate electrode; a channel formed of a magnetic material above the gate electrode to selectively transmit spin-polarized electrons; a source on the channel; and a drain and an output electrode on the channel outputting electrons transmitted from the source. The gate electrode may control a magnetization state of the channel in order to selectively transmit the electrons injected from the source to the channel.