A back panel for a flat panel display apparatus includes: a pixel electrode disposed on a substrate; a first gate electrode layer of a thin-film transistor (TFT) disposed on the substrate; a second gate electrode layer disposed on the first gate electrode layer and including a semiconductor material; a third gate electrode layer disposed on the second gate electrode layer and including a metal material; a first insulating layer disposed on the third gate electrode layer; an active layer disposed on the first insulating layer and including a transparent conductive oxide semiconductor; a second insulating layer disposed on the active layer; source and drain electrodes disposed connected to the active layer through the second insulating layer; and a third insulating layer covering the source and drain electrodes. The first gate electrode layer and the pixel electrode include a transparent conductive oxide.
A graphene electronic device and a method of fabricating the graphene electronic device are provided. The graphene electronic device may include a graphene channel layer formed on a hydrophobic polymer layer, and a passivation layer formed on the graphene channel layer. The hydrophobic polymer layer may prevent or reduce adsorption of impurities to transferred graphene, and a passivation layer may also prevent or reduce adsorption of impurities to a heat-treated graphene channel layer.
A thin film transistor (TFT) using an oxide semiconductor as an active layer, a method of manufacturing the TFT, and a flat panel display device having the TFT include source and drain electrodes formed on a substrate; an active layer formed of an oxide semiconductor disposed on the source and drain electrodes; a gate electrode; and an interfacial stability layer formed on at least one of top and bottom surfaces of the active layer. In the TFT, the interfacial stability layer is formed of an oxide having a band gap of 3.0 to 8.0 eV. Since the interfacial stability layer has the same characteristics as a gate insulating layer and a passivation layer, chemically high interface stability is maintained. Since the interfacial stability layer has a band gap equal to or greater than that of the active layer, charge trapping is physically prevented.
The graphene electronic device may include a gate oxide on a conductive substrate, the conductive substrate configured to function as a gate electrode, a pair of first metals on the gate oxide, the pair of the first metals separate from each other, a graphene channel layer extending between the first metals and on the first metals, and a source electrode and a drain electrode on both edges of the graphene channel layer.