A display device includes an infrared sensing transistor and a visible sensing transistor. The visible sensing transistor includes a semiconductor on a substrate; an ohmic contact on the semiconductor; an etch stopping layer on the ohmic contact; a source electrode and a drain electrode on the etch stopping layer; a passivation layer on the source electrode and the drain electrode; and a gate electrode on the passivation layer. The etch stopping layer may be composed of the same material as the source electrode and the drain electrode. The infrared sensing transistor is similar to the visible sensing transistor except the etch stopping layer is absent.
An approach is provided for manufacturing a LCD apparatus. A first substrate is formed by forming a transparent conductive layer on a first transparent insulating substrate and forming a transparent conductive electrode on the transparent conductive layer. A second substrate is formed by forming a thin-film transistor (TFT) on a second transparent insulating substrate and forming a pixel electrode. The first substrate is coupled to the second substrate using a sealing member.
A display apparatus includes a display panel, sensor circuits, and a detection circuit. Each sensor circuit senses at least two external signals different from each other and outputs a sensing signal. The detection circuit receives the sensing signal to detect a position to which the external signals are applied. Each sensor circuit includes sensors commonly connected to an output terminal, a scan line which receives a scan signal, a capacitor disposed between the scan line and the output terminal, charged with a first voltage in response to the scan signal, and charged with a second voltage greater than the first voltage in response to the current signal after the scan line is floated, a switching device which outputs the sensing signal in response to the second voltage, and a readout line which applies the sensing signal output from the switching device to the detection circuit.