An oxide thin-film transistor (TFT) substrate that includes: a substrate, a gate line, a data line, an oxide TFT, and a pixel electrode. An oxide layer of the oxide TFT includes a first region that has semiconductor characteristics and a channel, and a second region that is conductive and surrounds the first region. A portion of the first region is electrically connected to the pixel electrode, and the second region is electrically connected to the data line.
Exemplary embodiments of the present invention disclose a liquid crystal display (LCD) and a method of manufacturing the same. The LCD may have a display area and a peripheral area. An organic layer of the peripheral area may be patterned using a half-tone mask, and a protrusion member may be formed in the peripheral area. Accordingly, the thin film transistor array panel and the corresponding substrate may be prevented from being temporary adhered in the peripheral area such that the density of the liquid crystal molecules filled in the peripheral area may be uniformly maintained and the display quality of the liquid crystal display may be improved.
A process cartridge usable with an image forming apparatus includes a developing member, a photosensitive medium to face the developing member, a pair of supporting plates to rotatably support the developing member and the photosensitive medium; a center moving member rotatably disposed on the supporting plate, the center moving member having a first position in which the photosensitive medium contacts the developing member and a second position in which the photosensitive medium is spaced apart from the developing member; and a separation restraining member formed so that when the center moving member locates at the second position, the separation restraining member restrains the center moving member from moving from the second position.
A developer of an image-forming apparatus includes a photoconductor, a housing comprising a waste toner container in which waste toner removed from the photoconductor is contained, and a recessed portion depressed downwardly in a center portion of an upper wall of the waste toner container, the center portion corresponding to a center portion of the photoconductor in a lengthwise direction to move toner away from the center portion.
A thin film transistor array panel includes a substrate; a plurality of gate lines that are formed on the substrate; a plurality of data lines that intersect the gate lines; a plurality of thin film transistors that are connected to the gate lines and the data lines; a plurality of color filters that are formed on upper parts of the gate lines, the data lines, and the thin film transistors; a common electrode that is formed on the color filters and that includes a transparent conductor; a passivation layer that is formed on an upper part of the common electrode; and a plurality of pixel electrodes that are formed on an upper part of the passivation layer and that are connected to a drain electrode of each of the thin film transistors.
A thin film transistor substrate according to an embodiment of the present invention includes: an insulation substrate; a gate line formed on the insulation substrate; a first interlayer insulating layer formed on the gate line; a data line and a gate electrode formed on the first interlayer insulating layer; a gate insulating layer formed on the data line and gate electrode; a semiconductor formed on the gate insulating layer and overlapping the gate electrode; a second interlayer insulating layer formed on the semiconductor; a first connection formed on the second interlayer insulating layer and electrically connecting the gate line and the gate electrode to each other; a drain electrode connected to the semiconductor; a pixel electrode connected to the drain electrode; and a second connection connecting the data line and the semiconductor to each other.
A method and apparatus for detecting a free page of a memory device, and a method and apparatus for decoding an error correction code by using the method and apparatus for detecting a free page are provided. Free page data read from the memory is converted into a converted codeword for inclusion as an element of an error correction code field. The converted codeword is compared to an initially set target codeword to detect an amount of non-identical bits. A page read from the memory is determined to be a free page when the amount of non-identical bits is equal to or less than an initially set threshold value.