A liquid crystal display includes a first insulating substrate. A pixel electrode is formed on a top surface of the first insulating substrate. The pixel electrode has a first opening pattern at each pixel area. The pixel electrode is substantially rectangular in shape with first and second long sides, and first and second short sides. The pixel electrode is divided into an upper region defined by the first and second long sides and first short side, and a lower region defined by the first and second long sides and second short side. A common electrode is formed on a bottom surface of a second insulating substrate, and has a second opening pattern at each pixel area. The first and second opening patterns each have a plurality of openings, the openings of the first opening pattern and the second opening pattern being alternately arranged parallel to each other.
A liquid crystal display includes first and second gate lines and first and second data lines, on a first substrate, a first thin film transistor connected to the first gate and data lines and including a first source and drain electrode, a second thin film transistor connected to the second gate and data lines and including a second source and drain electrode, first and second pixel electrodes contacting a portion of the first and second drain electrodes, respectively, a passivation layer on the first and second pixel electrodes and the first and second thin film transistors, and a reference electrode on a passivation layer and overlapping the first pixel electrode and the second pixel electrode. The reference electrode includes a plurality of branch electrodes. The first thin film transistor is right of the first data line and the second thin film transistor is left of the second data line.
A tetragonal ring shape aperture is formed in the common electrode on one substrate and a cross shape aperture is formed at the position corresponding to the center of the tetragonal ring shape aperture in the pixel electrode on the other substrate. A liquid crystal layer between two electrodes are divided to four domains where the directors of the liquid crystal layer have different angles when a voltage is applied to the electrodes. The directors in adjacent domains make a right angle. The tetragonal ring shape aperture is broken at midpoint of each side of the tetragon, and the width of the aperture to decreases as goes from the bent point to the edge. Wide viewing angle is obtained by four domains where the directors of the liquid crystal layer indicate different directions, disclination is removed and luminance increases.