A method of fabricating a semiconductor device comprises: forming an etch stop layer to cover sidewall and top surfaces of first and second dummy gate patterns on a substrate; and forming an interlayer insulating layer on the substrate and the etch stop layer. The interlayer insulating layer is planarized to expose the etch stop layer on the first and second dummy gate patterns, and the etch stop layer is etched to expose the top surfaces and upper sidewall surfaces of the first and second dummy gate patterns, thereby forming a groove between the interlayer insulating layer and the first and second dummy gate patterns. The dummy gate patterns are removed, and gate electrodes are formed in their places.
Methods for manufacturing a semiconductor device having a dual gate dielectric layer may include providing a substrate including first and second regions, forming a first gate dielectric layer having a first thickness on the substrate, forming an interlayer insulating layer including first and second trenches exposing the first gate dielectric layer in the first and second regions, forming a sacrificial layer on the interlayer insulating layer and bottoms of the first and second trenches, forming a sacrificial pattern exposing the first gate dielectric layer of the bottom of the first trench, removing the first gate dielectric layer of the bottom of the first trench, forming a second gate dielectric layer having a second thickness on the bottom of the first trench, removing the sacrificial pattern, and forming a gate electrode on each of the first and second gate dielectric layers.
A semiconductor device is manufactured using dual metal silicide layers. The semiconductor device includes a substrate having first and second regions, a first metal gate electrode on the substrate in the first region, a second metal gate electrode on the substrate in the second region, a first epitaxial layer on and in the substrate at both sides of the first metal gate electrode, a second epitaxial layer on and in the substrate at both sides of the second metal gate electrode, a first metal silicide layer on the first epitaxial layer, a second metal silicide layer on the second epitaxial layer, an interlayer dielectric layer on the first and second metal silicide layers, contact plugs passing through the interlayer dielectric layer and electrically connected to the first and second metal silicide layers.
A semiconductor device includes a substrate, a device isolation pattern and a passive circuit element. The device isolation pattern is located on the substrate, delimits an active region of the substrate, and includes a recessed portion having a bottom surface located below a plane coincident with a surface of the active region. The passive circuit element is situated in the recess so as to be disposed on the bottom surface of the recessed portion of the device isolation pattern.
A semiconductor device includes a first insulating layer on a substrate; a first contact hole passing through the first insulating layer and exposing an upper surface of the substrate; a first barrier metal layer disposed on a sidewall and at a bottom of the first contact hole and a first metal plug disposed on the first barrier metal layer and in the first contact hole. A recess region is between the first insulating layer and the first metal plug. A gap-fill layer fills the recess region; and a second insulating layer is on the gap-fill layer. A second contact hole passes through the second insulating layer and exposes the upper surface of the first metal plug. A second barrier metal layer is on a sidewall and at the bottom of the second contact hole; and a second metal plug is on the second barrier metal layer.