A method and apparatus for generating a stereoscopic file defined based on a conventional International Standardization Organization (ISO) based media file format. The apparatus includes an encoder encoding first video data and second video data that are included in three-dimensional (3D) video data; and a file generating unit arranging the encoded first video data and second video data according to the information of a stereoscopic file format including boxes that are selected from boxes included in a conventional International Standardization Organization (ISO) based media file format in order to store and generate the stereoscopic file, and generating the stereoscopic file.
A method for providing a notification message in a transmitter of a mobile broadcast system supporting an interaction channel is disclosed. Upon an occurrence of a notification event, a first means generates a notification message, and generates at least one delivery request message including a target address based on subscription information of the corresponding terminal, using the generated notification message. A second means determines a channel over which it will deliver a notification message to the corresponding terminal based on the target address, and delivers the notification message over the determined channel.
Methods and apparatus are provided for generating 3D image files based on 2D image media standards. First and second image data are photographed, pre-processed, and stored. The first and second image data are encoded. A 3D image file is generated. The 3D image file includes a first area having the first and second image data synchronized with the first image data so as to be used for generating a 3D image, a second area including at least information on a number of frames and a size of each frame for the first image data, and a third area, separate from the second area, having information on a number of frames and a size of each frame for the second image data. Information stored in third area is for regenerating the 3D image and not for regenerating a 2D image.